| Property      | Value |
|---------------|-------|
| Hex Value     | `$72`|
| Categories    | <ul><li>[Catalog](<../categories/Catalog.md>) > [A](<../categories/Catalog.md#A>)</li><li>[Keypad](<../categories/Keypad.md>)</li></ul> |
| Localizations | <ul><li><b>FR</b>: `Rep`</li></ul> |

# `Ans`

## Overview
Returns the last answer.


<b>Availability</b>: Token available everywhere.

## Syntax
`Ans`

## Location
<tt><kbd><b>2nd</b></kbd></tt>, <kbd>ans</kbd>
<hr>

## Description

The <tt>Ans</tt> variable holds the last answer that was stored in the calculator. Because <tt>Ans</tt> is stored in a special storage area built-in to the calculator, and it is extensively used by the calculator, you cannot delete it. Ans is also useful; it can make your programs both smaller and faster:

*   Unlike other variables which have a value type hard-coded in (i.e., a [string](strings) can only hold text, and [lists](lists.md) and [matrices](matrices.md) can only hold numbers), <tt>Ans</tt> can take on whatever value you want: a real or complex, list, matrix, or string are all acceptable.

*   Along with the [finance](system-variables#finance) variables, <tt>Ans</tt> is faster than the real, complex, list, matrix, and string variables; and subsequently, you should try to use it as much as possible.

One of the most common places to use <tt>Ans</tt> is in place of storing a value to a variable. Just paste the <tt>Ans</tt> variable to the location where the variable was called, and then when the expression is evaluated, the calculator will use the current value of <tt>Ans</tt>. Using the <tt>Ans</tt> variable allows you to eliminate the variable, which helps save a little or a lot of memory (depending on the type of variable and its size).

Instead of:

```ti-basic
30+5A→B
Disp 25A,B
```

A shorter version would be:

```ti-basic
30+5A
Disp 25A,Ans
```

(Since the <tt>Ans</tt> token is only 1 byte, you've just saved two bytes. In longer programs the savings can add up!)

The one major drawback to using <tt>Ans</tt> is that its current value is only temporary.

## What commands modify Ans?

Whenever you:

*   [Store](Store.md) a value to a variable, such as <tt>1→X</tt>

*   Place an expression or string on a line by itself, such as <tt>1+2</tt> or <tt>"Hello"</tt>

*   Use the optional argument of the <tt><a href="Pause.md">Pause</a></tt> command such as <tt>Pause X</tt>. <tt>Ans</tt> will be updated to the new value.

If you're performing multiple calculations across multiple variables, you might be better off storing each in a separate variable.

## What commands do NOT modify Ans?

There are several cases in which changing the value of a variable does not modify <tt>Ans</tt>, thus preserving its current value for later use:

*   Asking a user for input via <tt>Prompt X</tt> or <tt>Input "X:",X</tt>

*   Storing to an [equation variable](system-variables#equation) such as <tt>"X+1"→Y₁</tt>

*   Using <tt><a href="DelVar.md">DelVar</a></tt> to delete a variable (i.e. set its value to zero, if it's a real variable)

*   <tt><a href="For(.md">For(</a></tt> loops

*   Changing the value with <tt><a href="IS&gt;(.md">IS&gt;(</a></tt> or <tt><a href="DS&lt;(.md">DS&lt;(</a></tt>

Also most other commands that do not modify variables will preserve <tt>Ans</tt>, including:

*   <tt>ClrHome</tt>
*   <tt>If … Then … Else … End</tt>
*   <tt>Disp</tt>
*   <tt>Output()</tt>
*   <tt>Repeat</tt>
*   <tt>While</tt>
*   <tt>Lbl</tt>
*   <tt>Goto</tt>
*   <tt>Menu()</tt>
*   <tt>Pause</tt> (when there's no parameter following it, otherwise the parameter will be stored in <tt>Ans</tt>!)

Knowing these cases can be very useful, allowing you to make efficient use of <tt>Ans</tt> to store a result and re-use it in later lines rather than create a temporary variable for it.

## Using Ans with Lists

<tt>Ans</tt> can be used to store lists and access individual items. Take the following example:

```ti-basic
10→A
{11,22,33}
Disp Ans(1),Ans(2)
```

In this example, the calculator is smart enough to know that <tt>Ans</tt> is currently holding a list, and so will interpret the <tt>(1)</tt> and <tt>(2)</tt> as accessing items from the list. As such it will display <tt>11</tt> and <tt>22</tt>. Trying to access <tt>Ans(4)</tt> will display an error.

However if we removed line 2 from the code above, <tt>Ans</tt> would instead be holding the value <tt>10</tt>, and as such <tt>Ans</tt> would be _multiplied_ by 1 and 2, resulting in <tt>10</tt> and <tt>20</tt>.

The <tt><a href="augment.md">augment</a>()</tt> function can also be used with <tt>Ans</tt> to add additional items to your list, for example:

```ti-basic
{1,2}
augment(Ans,{3,4})
Disp Ans
```

This will display <tt>{1&nbsp;2&nbsp;3&nbsp;4}</tt>

## Timing

Storing a real value into <tt>Ans</tt> takes approximately 1.0 ms. This does not include the time needed to compute or retrieve the value, which may be significant.

* * *

**Source**: parts of this page were written by the following TI|BD contributors: alexrudd, burr, DarkerLine, GoVegan, kg583, lirtosiast, Myles_Zadok, rileyp, Timothy Foster, Trenly.

## History
| Calculator | OS Version | Description |
|------------|------------|-------------|
| <b>TI-82</b> | 1.0 | Added |


